Section 10.6: IO Exceptions

Processing input and output is a task that often produces tenuous situations, given that it relies
on external resources such as user data and files. These resource scan have various problems that 
lead to exceptions being thrown. Let’s explore some I/O issues and the problems that may arise.

A stream is an ordered sequence of bytes. The term stream comes from the analogy that as we read 
and write information, the data flows from a source to a destination (or sink) as water flows 
down a stream. The source of the information is like a spring filling the stream, and the 
destination is like a cave into which the stream flows.

In a program, we treat a stream as either an input stream, from which we read information, or as 
an output stream, to which we write information. A program can deal with multiple input and 
output streams at one time. A particular store of data, such as a file, can serve either as an 
input stream or as an output stream to aprogram, but it generally cannot be both at the same time.

You should already be familiar to system.in (input stream) and system.out (output stream). There
is a third standard I/O stream. It is the system.err (error stream, output in red).

In addition to the standard input streams, the java.io package of the Java
standard class library provides many classes that let us define streams with particular
characteristics. Some of the classes deal with files, others with memory,
and others with strings. Some classes assume that the data they handle consists
of characters, whereas others assume the data consists of raw
bytes of binary information. Some classes provide the means to
manipulate the data in the stream in some way, such as buffering
the information or numbering it. By combining classes in appropriate
ways, we can create objects that represent a stream of information
that has the exact characteristics we want for a particular
situation.

Many operations performed by I/O classes can potentially throw an
I/O Exception. The IOException class is the parent of several exception classes
that represent problems when trying to perform I/O. These exceptions are checked exceptions.


